actions/q-142: ADD question r/t installation access tokens (#663)
FidelusAleksander/ghcertified: questions/en/actions/question-142.md

---
question: "Which of the following answers is correct regarding installation access tokens?"

> documentation: "https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/authenticating-as-a-github-app-installation#using-an-installation-access-token-to-authenticate-as-an-app-installation"

Reviewer: Would this documentation link be better?

```suggestion
documentation: "https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/making-authenticated-api-requests-with-a-github-app-in-a-github-actions-workflow"
```

Author: So the problem with that link is that it doesn't really list any of the characteristics/benefits of an installation access token. The other link _does_ include such characteristics but they're smattered throughout the doc. 

I can update so `documentation` uses the link you suggested, and then provide the other link in an explanation if that works?

Reviewer: I haven't read into into that much. I'm glad you checked and I'll leave it up to your judgment

Author: I wrote this basic (but long) article that goes over how to set up a Github App to generate installation access tokens if you're ever interested! A lot of it is gleaned from the docs but usually the stuff I write is associated with a matching repo--the details of which you can find [here](https://medium.com/p/0bfcfa39f5c1). 

It's from the perspective of someone newer to DevOps/Github Actions as I whole so I'm sure most of it is boilerplate to you haha :D

---

- [x] Installation access tokens are short-lived tokens ideal for automation activities, but require setting up a Github App.
- [x] `GITHUB_TOKEN` is a type of installation access token.

> > `GITHUB_TOKEN` is a GitHub App installation access token that is set up when you enable Github Actions. See the  [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/concepts/security/github_token) for additional details.

Reviewer: "When you enable GitHub Actions" seems too broad/inaccurate

```suggestion
> `GITHUB_TOKEN` is a GitHub App installation access token that is automatically generated for every workflow run. See the  [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/concepts/security/github_token) for additional details.
```

- [x] The `actions/create-github-app-token` can be called within workflows to create an installation access token available for immediate use. 
- [ ] The `actions/create-github-app-token` can be called within workflows to create an installation access token, but the installation access token can only be used in future runs of the workflow.
> Once created, an installation access can be used immediately. See the [official page for this action](https://github.com/actions/create-github-app-token) for additional details.

> - [ ] Installation access tokens are similar to personal access tokens (PATs) in that both are tied to a specific user account

Reviewer: > "...in that both are tied to a specific user account"

Isn't that true to some extent in some cases? E.g when I create a GitHub App that is only used by me - the app is not public, not available on marketplace.

I'd make this answer more wrong

Author: Committed. 

This is a good catch, I was thinking in the scope of "on behalf of" when I used the term "tied". Still want to get the point across that a major use case of installation access tokens is to act on behalf of a Github App, so updated the answer and explanation to match. Let me know if that looks good!

- [x] Installation access tokens are short-lived tokens ideal for automation activities, but require setting up a Github App.
- [x] `GITHUB_TOKEN` is a type of installation access token.
> `GITHUB_TOKEN` is a GitHub App installation access token that is automatically generated for every workflow run. See the  [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/concepts/security/github_token) for additional details.
- [x] The `actions/create-github-app-token` can be called within workflows to create an installation access token available for immediate use. 
- [ ] The `actions/create-github-app-token` can be called within workflows to create an installation access token, but the installation access token can only be used in future runs of the workflow.
> Once created, an installation access can be used immediately. See the [official page for this action](https://github.com/actions/create-github-app-token) for additional details.

> - [ ] Installation access tokens cannot be configued to act on behalf of their associated Github App. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Installation access tokens cannot be configured to act on behalf of their associated Github App. 
```
